LETTER OF MOTIVATION Introduction:
My mind races when I contemplate the realm of science. I often find myself lost in the world of imagination. From the concepts of astrophysics to binary computing, I am curious about everything. I have been an engineer since my childhood, partly because my father is one too. We used to repair everything from our ever-failing home computer to the never-working Air Conditioner. The intricacy of machines has always captivated me. As I moved through my academic career, I developed a growing interest in machines and the opportunity to build them, which have a high degree of complexity and coherence. Their potential to transform how we live and work has long fascinated me.
In my school days, I was active in and out of the classroom. When I was in 3rd grade, my electromagnetism model was on display at the school's science exhibition. I ranked 58th nationally in the Mathematics Olympiad when I was in 4th grade, and in my 10th, I was the ‘Times National Aptitude Winner’. My cricket team won the school championship, which was conducted every four years. I finished my Secondary studies from the CBSE board with a score of 96 percent. My passion for STEM and robots in particular developed in my intermediate college life and made me choose Engineering with Mechanical as my Major.
Undergraduate Experience:
Throughout my undergraduate studies, I have pursued a number of research projects. These projects have allowed me to apply my technical skills and deepen my understanding of the field. I tried covering all the basics of robotics by taking the required subjects for the domain and attending plenty of workshops. In my 1st year, I made a rudimentary gesture-controlled robot using OpenCV. Later that year, I worked on the physics department's design and production of a Carbon Dioxide laser. During my second year at university, I applied and was recruited by the university’s most advanced robotics team, ‘Team Robocon MJCET’ as a ‘Robot Designer & Researcher’. From design and manufacturing to the robot’s programming and control, I pushed myself to learn as much as possible. The main agenda of the team was to build two robots that compete in the ‘Asia-Pacific Robot Contest’ (ABU-Robocon). We built the robots as per specifications and employed upon it certain technologies that are needed to complete the required tasks. The usage of these robots never extended out of the set tasks, but the amount of work and effort exerted on these robots held a great value. For instance, in my 1st year with the team when we were ranked 15th in the country, I was tasked with design and control of the locomotion of the robots. I designed two holonomic chassis using the X-Drive configuration of Omni wheels and both robots had incremental rotary encoders for the odometry. The motors were PID tuned using the sensor data collected. Humble support and guidance from my seniors of different domains were always present throughout my journey with the team. 
In my second year with the team, I oversaw the complete technical development of the two robots. In the off-season, we developed an independent steering and drive mechanism -swerve drive- for the locomotion of the robot using low kV BLDC motors and 120 Amp Electronic Speed Controllers. Initially, the drive was coupled with LabVIEW, but later we leaned towards ROS for more control and reduce hardware dependency. The robots were required to pick and arrange 5 cylindrical objects while simultaneously avoiding the enemy balls. I also worked on the image capture with OpenCV and it was coupled with ROS for the robot to evade losing situations. In my final year with the team, I was elected as the team's captain and worked on two robots that compete to throw roughly 40 rings into poles at various heights. The humble experience I gained working day and night with this team, as well as many night-outs in the university for more than 3 years, has moulded me into not just a robotics engineer, but a person with leading and guiding potential.
In all of my years at the university, I have been constantly involved in Research & Development projects. With some seniors in the team, I worked on building a 6-Axis Robotic Arm with computer vision for pick and place purposes using ROS as the mediator of the digital twin. I have also worked on a 3-Axis Industrial project from ‘HBL Power Systems’ that extracted finished moulding products and placed them in the desired location. My standout R&D projects are the 2 quadruped robots sanctioned by the university. ‘PneuQuad’ was the one that used pneumatic pistons as its patented locomotion and a simple robotic arm at its head position for the possibility of manipulation. The second quadruped is a more complicated one, and it was also my final year project. It is called ‘KALB’ and it is a 12-DOF dog robot controlled and simulated completely by ROS and MOVEit. It has 12 servo motors for complete locomotion and is equipped with Intel RealSense depth camera at its face for object detection and a Lidar on top for SLAM. We [the robotics team] brought many laurels to the university and shared our knowledge by conducting a series of workshops on a variety of topics such as Image processing, android app development, Eagle PCB design, CAD Design using Solidworks, 3D printing, and many more.
Besides these research projects, I have worked on some novelty ones when possible. My project ‘GPS Shoe Tracker’, made to monitor and indicate an elementary school student’s whereabouts to their parents won the 5th prize in the national technical hackathon ‘ANVESHNA’. During the second pandemic wave, our group of student engineers from the university came up with an idea to create a difference and contribute to society. We came up with a solution to tackle the shortage of oxygen supply by seed-funding our idea and building oxygen concentrators that would extract and store oxygen from atmospheric air. I also participated in several hackathon events conducted in our university and the city. I was also fortunate enough to get invited to an international ‘Literature & Media workshop’ conducted in the Capital-New Delhi-by the name of ‘Al-Waan’.
Post-Study Experience:
In the final weeks of graduating from university, I joined a company called ‘Robiotics Labs’, which is a solution-based start-up that works as a product procurement & research hub. My main tasks since I joined is to help in continuing the development of an upper body Exoskeleton named ‘RAES’, that measured signals generated from the bicep muscles, and converted them to required power assistance exerted by the linear actuators, such that they expand or retract to push or pull with a larger force. These experiences of robotics and my background in mechanical were the main motivation to select the realm autonomous devices as the specialization for further studies in my life. In addition, I'm presently enrolled in the B1 German course at the Goethe Institute. 
My motivation & commitment:
My life revolved around spending time with machines and computers. Throughout my bachelor’s, after working on and completing multiple projects, I am filled with this desire to learn and contribute more. I am convinced that working on the Master’s degree in Smart Systems will be the best way to fulfil this desire. I believe my humble insight and knowledge of the bridge between mechanical engineering and computer/electrical engineering would be a unique gateway of research in the program.
I wish to be at the forefront of innovation, contributing to cutting-edge breakthroughs and developing my technical expertise. Autonomous Systems is my top research interest. Hochschule Furtwangen, employs state-of-the-art facilities and clean rooms to advance new ideas and developments in the sector. Moreover, the course content and specialization of smart devices is what I would like to pursue. I am interested in the industry connections of the departments which will help me apply my skills on real-time projects. I am also interested in the research areas of medical technology which corresponds to my current work. I would be grateful if I get a chance to learn in this environment.
My inherent curiosity for all intelligent systems; my team spirit and my problem-solving nature are what I would love to bring to the university and the program. I assure the admission committee that I will work diligently to excel while upholding its ideals. I look forward to being a part of the 2024 class.

Syed Siddiq Shakir
